# Balatro Capital: Growth is for dummies
Outline: Will fill out later
+ Me: Math & Comp Sci Person, love hard games about scaling systems
+ What I Know: Short and long term limitations, often you solve for short term with all available resources, and then optimize for long term with remaining ones
+ Where the complexity lies: In these games there are many moving parts. Looking at studies on how many things people can keep in their head and how fast people learn, these things are changing faster than you can intuit
+ Ways to solve this: Pause and recalculate at every opportunity (often not 100% possible because systems are changing and growing while you are learning), Learn the system inside and out (often not 100% possible because many games are complex enough that they compete with the current limits of AI, game theory, computation etc, most people fight this by coming up with strategies, goals, and rules around best play), make sure your growth scales faster than the difficulty of the game
+ It's easier to optimize for growth than perfect play. It's a simpler formula and a simpler goal.
+ Often people employ a mix of these strategies but at a more abstract level growth is a good general goal that is padded out by knowing the game and knowing any pitfalls to avoid that would completely undercut it.
+ Real play is way more complex than this but this strategy generally holds true.
+ Complexity and difficulty scaling in many games are different. Multiple systems or mechanics scale differently both on how they are designed and how the game designer intended you to play.
+ In real life, looking at business, the complexity is way higher, you cannot pause, you are often given completely new things to handle, black swan events etc. The scale of complexity of just managing the people inside an organization is often more complex than a game not to mention the actual day-to-day things the business contends with in the real world.
+ This is often why businesses just do one thing. It's hard to manage complexity, so you can simplify it by just making tires instead of the whole car. You will find exceptions to this, but many businesses specialize or start out specializing.
+ In addition, it's easier to solve for growth than it is to completely understand the complexity of say running a cafe or an insurance company or insert any other business.
+ Due to the competetive nature of capitalism, success is stratified and the more successful you are, the less competition there is. This is counter to what we are taught, but it is often so hard to succeed in any significant way, that if you do end up financially better off, you may be exposed to more problems within a business on a daily basis, but there is a larger pile of resources to lean on and you can often swing harder at things than competitors. A great example of this is anticompetetive pricing or location choices. Walmarts followed a model where they would open up in areas they targeted as being good markets. They would also open within a driveable distance for everyone in the area. Walmart was often making profit margins of a few pennies per item, which would bankrupt any other business. As they slowly took over rural towns and malls, they became the only employer and only large retailer in many, many small towns in the US. That is basically a mandate to raise prices and reduce product quality as much as people will bear as they are now forced to shop at Walmart, work at Walmart, get foodstamps to support the low pay at Walmart, and spend their food stamps at Walmart as well.
+ Not only do you get a dominant competetive pricing advantage in this way, buy the more money you get the more people you can hire to come up with and execute these ideas, so you actually have to manage less and less as long as you can maintain legal control over some financial stake in the company.
+ As complexity scales to an enormous level like a multinational everything store doing international imports and exports with every product known to man and an employee size in the tens or hundreds of thousands, it's pretty much impossible for any one person to know the ins and outs of that business. It's also pretty impossible for everyone in that business to accurately communicate the ins and outs of any particular sector with people they know.
+ It is pretty easy to scrape a bunch of stats abou tthe company or sectors, and then pick growth as your target for a healthy business. If you're growing you're probably surviving.
+ If you add the stock market on top of that, any publicly traded company now lives or dies on growth, rather than just using it as a lazy success metric.
+ And that is my grand theory on growth and capitalism (oh and throw in some healthy greed.) 