---
title: Making Art Without Social Media
weight: -2
---
Social Media is all the rage these days. That's a pun based on thefact that social media companies weaponize rage against users to keep them engaged so they stay on the platforms longer and share more content.

I was watcing a video yesterday about how to instantly scale your art business without getting a million followers tomorrow. And what I do now since most of the content on youtube is complete shit is I just read the transcript. My reading comprehension is extremely fast compared to listening, so I can skim through a 10 minute video in about 1 and find the main points. Then I can see if I want to dive deeper.

The whole damn video was cliffhangers. It reminded me of Vanity Fair and a few other victorian serial novels which would be published chapter by chapter. And the book the Medium is the Massage. Yes that's the title. But basically the way stuff is published and distributed and shown heavily affects it. Youtube optimizes for watch time, sells ads on content, and doesn't offer you many other opportunities for making money. So creators are inscentivized to create 10-20 minute long videos full of cliffhangers with clickbait titles, and if you can get people to watch the whole video, youtube will promote it. Then if you get them to the end, you haven't given anything of value, so they have to click off of youtube onto your sales course or whatever and pay to know what to do. You still don't have to offer any more value. You can offer more cliffhangers because not only has youtube pushed this video out to everyone, but kind of like the nigerian prince scam, you've filtered out everyone that thinks you're a scamming idiot. So the people that click through are thirsty for your secrets. So the whole "optimize for watch time" metric ends up shafting all the content on youtube. It ends up being 20 minute how to videos on how to be a millionaire in your niche without any real entertainment or information. Youtube used to be full of original content and cool creators, but as they adjust the algorithm it creates swathes of content like this.

Instagram bleeped out the word "shit" automatically from one of my reels. Most of these companies havean extreme amount of censorship not limited to indecency. Titkok was rumored to have an algorithm that would score how attractive you are based on facial recognition.

Its a weird thing but I've found myself thinking of completed concepts in one to two sentences, only to try to execute them and realize I have no idea the depth of the idea. Instead of creating to explore and learn, I create to show off. And I fundamentally don't think about what it takes to actually make something.

It's this weird combination of censorship and productized content that fucks everything up. Before you even pick up your tool of choice, you're holding your phone and trying to think of the end product. Do I look good, what words can I say, what shots do I need. You've done that before you even are like what is the second sentence out of my mouth. Then you go and create absolute dogshit content, and unless you're really hot or interesting looking, it bombs most of the time. This is the process for a lot of people. It makes you feel like a failed creative, and most of your inspiration is algorithmic drama that's being spoon fed to you every morning.

Creativity thrives when you don't really know what you're doing or where you're going. You can eventually get to a point where you can whip crazy shit out of your ass, but it comes with practice, not just because you needed a good idea to show off to people.

Usually most of what you create will be dogshit or even worse, MEDIOCRE! And a select amount of things are absolute GEMS. That's the creative process for most people. Curation is important. Not because it's a lie, but the work of a creative includes the audience and your goal should be to show them something worth paying attention to. It doesn't have to be the best thing ever, just something you made that you enjoy. That involves at least a very small bit of curation. It's okay to create create create, and curate later. Write drunk edit sober is the writers motto. With tiktok it is post drunk post drunk post drunk. I don't like that.

The goal is to get off your damn phone and just make stuff for no one, for yourself. I'm posting this on a personal blog that has no metrics and no viewers and no SPELL CHECK!!!! It lacks the most basic functions. But I create here prolificly because the only thing on my mind is writing, the idea, the fun part I care about.

Thanks to automation I can hack this apart later for youtube shorts and linkedin posts, but that is something that I really don't want to think about right now because self editing at that level will destroy anything interesting I have to say. I can always edit this later and put the good parts out for the world to see.

Stop thinking about other people. Turn of your phone. Make something bad for no one in particular!